# CDC Serial Emulator MSD Example \(cdc\_serial\_emulator\_msd\)

This demonstration application creates a USB composite device that combines the<br /> functionality of the cdc\_serial\_emulator and msd\_basic demonstration applications.

## **Description**

This application demonstrates a USB composite device with CDC and MSD functions. The<br /> CDC function implements a USB-to-Serial Converter. The MSD function driver<br /> implements a USB Mass Storage Device with NVM as storage media.

## **Downloading and building the application**

To clone or download this application from Github, go to the [main page of this repository](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/usb_apps_device) and then click **Clone**<br /> button to clone this repository or download as zip file. This content can also be<br /> downloaded using content manager by following these [instructions](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/contentmanager/wiki).

Path of the application within the repository is<br /> **apps\\cdc\_serial\_emulator\_msd**.

Following table gives the details of project configurations, target device<br /> used, hardware and its IDE. Open the project using the respective IDE and build<br /> it.

|Project Name|IDE|Target Device|Hardware / Configuration|
|------------|---|-------------|------------------------|
|pic32mz\_ef\_curiosity\_2\_0.X|MPLABX|PIC32MZ2048EFM144|Curiosity PIC32MZ EF 2.0 Development Board|
|pic32cz\_ca80\_curiosity\_ultra.X|MPLABX|PIC32CZ8110CA80208|PIC32CZ Curiosity Development Board|

## **Configuring the Hardware**

**[Curiosity PIC32MZ EF 2.0 Development Board](https://www.microchip.com/Developmenttools/ProductDetails/DM320209)**

-   Use the USB micro-B port J201 to connect the USB Device to the USB Host PC.
-   LED1 indicates USB Device Configuration Set Complete event \(the USB device functionality has been activated by the USB Host\).
-   The CDC USB \(UART to USB\) interface on this board is served by the DEBUG\_USB connector J700. Connecting this to the PC will create a COM port on the PC Host.

**[PIC32CZ CA80 Curiosity Ultra development board](https://www.microchip.com/en-us/development-tool/ea61x20a)**

-   Use the USB micro-B port J102 to connect the USB Device to the USB Host PC.
-   LED0 indicates USB Device Configuration Set Complete event \(the USB device functionality has been activated by the USB Host\).
-   The CDC USB \(UART to USB\) interface on this board is served by the DEBUG\_USB connector J200. Connecting this to the PC will create a COM port on the PC Host.

## **Running the Application**

This demonstration functions as a composite USB Device that combines the<br /> features of the devices created by the [cdc\_serial\_emulator](GUID-D58BD14B-2571-47EA-8A07-2163EDEC3FD5.md) and the [msd\_basic](GUID-253EA897-AFA3-4A65-9976-EF08D2D362E8.md)<br /> demonstration applications. Refer to Running the Demonstration section of the<br /> cdc\_serial\_emulator demonstration and Running the Demonstration section of the<br /> msd\_basic demonstration for details on exercising the CDC and MSD functions,<br /> respectively.

The LEDs on the demonstration board will indicate the USB state of the<br /> device, as described in the USB Device State and LED Indication Table in the Device<br /> section.

**Parent topic:**[Harmony 3 USB Device application examples](GUID-90055758-897E-445A-8A8B-CE4EBF3930A7.md)

