# HID MSD Basic Example \(hid\_msd\_basic\)

This application demonstrates the ability of the MPLAB Harmony USB Device Stack to support<br /> USB composite device.

## **Description**

This demonstration application creates a USB Device that combines the<br /> functionality of the hid\_basic and msd\_basic demonstration applications.

-   To demonstrate HID functionality, the device allows USB Host utility to control the LEDs on the board and query the status of a switch.
-   To demonstrate MSD functionality, application allows read / write / modify / delete data from a PC host like any normal Flash drive.

## **Downloading and building the application**

To clone or download this application from Github, go to the [main page of this repository](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/usb_apps_device) and then click **Clone** button to clone this repository<br /> or download as zip file. This content can also be downloaded using content manager by<br /> following these [instructions](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/contentmanager/wiki).

Path of the application within the repository is [usb\_apps\_device/apps/hid\_msd\_basic](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/usb_apps_device/tree/master/apps/hid_msd_basic).

Following table gives the details of project configurations, target device used,<br /> hardware and its IDE. Open the project using the respective IDE and build it.

|Project Name|IDE|Target Device|Hardware / Configuration|
|------------|---|-------------|------------------------|
|pic32mz\_ef\_curiosity\_2\_0.X|MPLABX|PIC32MZ2048EFM144|Curiosity PIC32MZ EF 2.0 Development Board|
|pic32mx470\_curiosity.X|MPLABX|PIC32MX470F512H|PIC32MX Curiosity Development Board|
|sam\_d21\_xpro.X|MPLABX|ATSAMD21J18A|SAMD21 Xplained Pro Board|
|sam\_e70\_xult.X|MPLABX|ATSAME70Q21B|SAME70 Xplained Ultra Board|
|sam\_e54\_xpro.X|MPLABX|ATSAME54P20A|SAME54 Xplained Pro Board|
|pic32cz\_ca80\_curiosity\_ultra.X|MPLABX|PIC32CZ8110CA80208|PIC32CZ Curiosity Development Board|

## **Configuring the Hardware**

**[Curiosity PIC32MZ EF 2.0 Development Board](https://www.microchip.com/Developmenttools/ProductDetails/DM320209)**

-   Use the USB micro-B port J201 to connect the USB Device to the USB Host PC.
-   LED1 indicates USB Device Configuration Set Complete event \(the USB device functionality has been activated by the USB Host\).
-   Pressing the LED Toggle button on the USB Host PC Utility toggles LED1.
-   The USB Host PC utility monitors the switch SW1 switch press on the board.

**[Curiosity PIC32MX470 Development Board](https://www.microchip.com/Developmenttools/ProductDetails/dm320103)**

-   Use the USB micro-B port J12 to connect the USB Device to the USB Host PC.
-   LED1 indicates USB Device Configuration Set Complete event \(the USB device functionality has been activated by the USB Host\).
-   Pressing the LED Toggle button on the USB Host PC Utility toggles the LED.
-   Press the switch S1 to trigger communication from the USB Device to the USB Host.

**[SAMD21 Xplained Pro Board](https://www.microchip.com/developmenttools/ProductDetails/atsamd21-xpro)**

-   Use TARGET USB connector on the board to connect the USB Device to the USB Host PC.
-   LED0 indicates USB Device Configuration Set Complete event \(the USB device functionality has been activated by the USB Host\).
-   Pressing the LED Toggle button on the USB Host PC Utility toggles LED0.
-   The USB Host PC utility monitors the switch SW0 switch press on the board.

**[SAME54 Xplained Pro Board](https://www.microchip.com/developmenttools/productdetails/atsame54-xpro)**

-   Use TARGET USB connector on the board to connect the USB Device to the USB Host PC.
-   LED0 indicates USB Device Configuration Set Complete event \(the USB device functionality has been activated by the USB Host\). The LED is turned off when the Bus is suspended.
-   Press the switch SW0 to trigger communication from the USB Device to the USB Host.

**[SAME70 Xplained Ultra Board](https://www.microchip.com/DevelopmentTools/ProductDetails/PartNO/DM320113)**

-   Jumper J203 must be shorted between PB08 and VBUS \(positions 2 and 3\).
-   Use TARGET USB J200 connector on the board to connect the USB Device to the USB Host PC.
-   LED3 indicates USB Device Configuration Set Complete event \(the USB device functionality has been activated by the USB Host\).
-   Pressing the LED Toggle button on the USB Host PC Utility toggles LED3.
-   The USB Host PC utility monitors SW400 switch press on the board.

**[PIC32CZ CA80 Curiosity Ultra development board](https://www.microchip.com/en-us/development-tool/ea61x20a)**

-   Use TARGET USB connector J102 on the board to connect the USB Device to the USB Host PC.
-   LED1 indicates USB Device Configuration Set Complete event \(the USB device functionality has been activated by the USB Host\).
-   Pressing the LED Toggle button on the USB Host PC Utility toggles LED1.
-   The USB Host PC utility monitors the switch SW0 switch press on the board

## **Running the Application**

This demonstration uses the selected hardware platform as a USB Composite device<br /> handling both HID class device and MSD class device. In HID functionality, the device allows<br /> USB Host utility to control the LEDs on the board and query the status of a switch. In MSD<br /> functionality, application allows read / write / modify / delete data from a PC host like<br /> any normal Flash drive.

Open the project with appropriate IDE. Compile the<br /> project and program the target device.

**Running the HID Device**

The HID<br /> Device application is same as *hid\_basic* demo. Refer to local documentation from [usb\_apps\_device/apps/hid\_basic](GUID-6CCEC174-DED4-48B5-8023-6BF721AA10D7.md). The documentation is also available in the github<br /> path [usb\_apps\_device/apps/hid\_basic](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/usb_apps_device/tree/master/apps/hid_basic).

**Note:** The<br /> PC application needed for controlling the HID function should be used from<br /> *usb\_apps\_device/apps/hid\_msd\_basic\\bin\\GenericHIDSimpleDemo\_Composite\_HID+MSD\_Demo\_only\_PID\_0x0054.exe.*<br /> To launch the application, double click the executable<br /> *GenericHIDSimpleDemo\_Composite\_HID+MSD\_Demo\_only\_PID\_0x0054.exe*.

Running the<br /> MSD Basic DeviceThe MSD Basic Device application is same as msd\_basic demo. Refer to local<br /> documentation from usb\_apps\_device/apps/msd\_basic. The documentation is also available in<br /> the github path usb\_apps\_device/apps/msd\_basic.

**Parent topic:**[Harmony 3 USB Device application examples](GUID-90055758-897E-445A-8A8B-CE4EBF3930A7.md)

